okay good morning everybody let's Dive
Right Back In welcome to week uh two
just a little bit of logistics and
scheduling to get us oriented where
we've been where we are where we're
going uh those taking the class for
undergraduate credit you submitted
assignment one by last night by 11:59
p.m. all good I know there are a couple
of you that are still struggling with
installation issues it's my fault not
yours we have tried over the years to
iron out all the installation issues
with pie bullet but there is always some
combination of platform and operating
system that doesn't seem to agree with
piy bullet my fault if you are
struggling and you have not struggling
with installation issues and you have
not talked to fya or myself please
please do come and see me we have a work
around you can do everything in the
browser uh it's all good okay any other
other questions about the assignment so
far so far so good okay so as promised
uh today I will just say a very few uh
words about the assignment that you're
now working on which is assignment two
for the undergrads and graduate students
if you're running ahead that's perfectly
fine you can see I've hot linked all the
way up to assignment uh four in the
subreddit at the bottom of each learning
module as you've now probably figured
out there's a link that points to the
next learning module and then the next
one and the next one feel free to run
ahead uh if you want um that's perfectly
fine okay so hopefully by assignment one
we've got all the installation issues
out of the way uh you've been able to
you've been able to download and uh be
able to call the pybullet library which
is the physics engine we're going to be
using for this course so by the end of
assignment one you should in essence
have a blank page on which you're going
to build up everything else in the
coming assignments and particularly in
assignment two you're going to start to
implement uh links which is the
particular term that this particular
physics engine uses for the objects that
make up the body parts of your robot and
the objects that make up the task
environment in which your robot operates
lyns is a horribly chosen word for this
um think sausage links not links in a
chain so the sausage links are the
objects themselves in assignment three
you're going to be adding joints to your
simulation which like your knee joints
and elbow joints are the things that
connect links together very confusing
right joints link links together I
didn't come up with these terms so we'll
do the best we can yeah okay all right
um we're going to talk about in
assignment three when the undergraduates
get to this uh next week we're going to
spend a little bit of time talking about
joints because again this particular
physics engine Pi bullet uses a
particular way of uh referencing
positions of links and joints in space
which can be a little bit confusing so
next week when we talk about next
Tuesday I'll talk a little bit about
absolute and relative coordinate frames
for the undergraduates that are running
ahead and get to assignment three and
start to implement joints
please go ahead and do so if you want if
you get confused don't worry all will be
clarified on Tuesday okay that's
assignment three um in assignment four
for The Graduate students you're pushing
on and adding another necessary
component to your robot which are the
sensors there are various kinds of
sensors you can add to the physics
engine at this point you're dealing with
pi bullet which is the physics engine
itself links and joints are things that
are built into the physics engine as the
name physics engine implies it's not
necessarily about robotics so everything
you're going to be doing from assignment
four onward is adding stuff or you're
coding up stuff or adding stuff to the
physics engine to enable the physics
engine to simulate
robots okay all right so assignment uh
for you're adding sensors after that
assignment five you're going to be
adding Motors these are the things that
are going to apply forces to the joints
to allow your robot to start moving and
in later assignments you're going to be
adding
neurons to your robot and synapses to
your
robot for now all you really need to
know is that the neurons and synapses as
the name names imply is going to be the
brain of your robot neurons and synapses
are going to connect the robot sensors
to its
motors which allow the robot to which is
going to allow your robot to sense think
act sense think act sense think act and
around and around and around we go so
over the next month or so for the
undergraduates you're going to be
gradually adding these pieces when you
get confused you get stuck in the weeds
pull back and remember that you're
implementing these the six basic
components that make up your Ro robot
links joints sensors Motors neurons and
synapses okay just to sort of Orient you
where you're heading any other questions
about the assignments before we push
on okay uh just to remind you again uh
you're not submitting code to us you're
not bringing broken code to the TA or
myself we don't know why your code isn't
running you're submitting uh screenshots
and videos at the end of assignment at
the end of assignment two you should
have the 25 Towers looking like this as
you can see I'm moving the virtual
camera a little bit just allowing the
teaching assistant to be able to see
that everything is implemented correctly
right this is what we're looking at to
assess whether or not you've implemented
uh your assignments correctly or not as
I mentioned last time as I mentioned
last time uh you can upload an mp4
directly to us if you don't want to
leave a digital footprint if you don't
mind leaving a digital footprint take
your screenshot your resulting video
Drop It on YouTube send us the YouTube
link or embed the YouTube link in
YouTube send us the Reddit link we don't
mind I think I've set up the assignments
now where uploading uh uploading a file
to brightspace is optional so URLs is
fine Direct uploads also fine are the
links and Joints the only physical
objects in the engine yep great question
so are the links and Joints the only
physical objects the answer is actually
it's only the links so what you're
seeing in this picture here should be 25
towers with 1 2 3 four five however many
that is let's say 10 block 10 links per
Tower so there's a total of 250 links in
that simulation there are no joints as
you can see all of the cubes are moving
independently of one another none of
them are connected together with
something that holds those pair of
objects or pair of links
together does that answer your question
oh so the so the links are like the
separate objects which are yet to be
connected to the main body object uh
okay good point so let let me try and
clarify this again links is what you're
looking at is a piie bullet simulation
we're not at we're not at robots yet
different physics engines simulate
physics in different ways in P bullet
this particular physics engine every the
only building block the only thing that
you can construct stuff with in py
bullet are
links okay and this point we're building
up the environment of the robot it's not
even a robot yet it's just stuff we're
putting into the virtual environment
which in this case is 25 towers with 10
links per Tower we've ask the P bullet
simulation here to simulate
250 separate
links these are the physical objects as
you can see their their cubes you can
also add uh links that are spheres
rectangular solids prisms we're not
going to deal with any of those in this
class everything's going to be made up
of these uh
links when we go to make the robot which
you're going to do as you move forward
the robot is also going to be made up of
links you're going to make a link called
uh lower right arm upper right arm lower
left arm upper left arm you're going to
start to build up the robot out of links
in the exact same way that I'm building
up this set of towers out of independent
links as
well in the case of the robot we're
going to then start to connect these
links together with joints and now we're
going to have some segmented creature
that's made up of a bunch of links
connected did with
joints so the links are physical objects
the joints are not physical objects
they're not anything you're going to
actually see in the pie bullet
simulation they're just going to joints
are going to constrain the movement of
the links the objects right luckily my
lower arm cannot move towards the door
while my upper arm stays here that's
what my elbow joint is for it constrains
the relative motion of my upper and
lower arm it keeps them together that's
exactly what joints do in a physics
engine as well they connect pairs of
objects together and they allow those
objects or those links to move but that
movement is constrained they can't move
like this they can't move like this they
can move like
this that's a little bit more than I
wanted to say about joints I'll go back
through that again next to Tuesday but
just to sort of get this all clear in
your head the building blocks basic
building blocks in the physics engine
are links all of this stuff is going to
help you to build your
robot any other questions about that yes
kind of just using those components how
like powerful is just using those those
links and Joints like can you make like
a hand that functions like a hand just
using those okay great question so how
uh how complicated a body plan can we
make could we make a human hand there's
250 parts there are a lot of bones in
your hand but I'm pretty sure there's
less than 250 so yes you can make a
pretty complicated robot body plan if
you want the limitation is not the
physics engine itself it's your laptop
your device this takes as you can
imagine quite a bit of computation and
memory that's usually the limiting
factor in this class uh the robots
you're going to be making have no more
than nine parts so we're going to keep
things pretty simple but if you want to
make a human hand and arm as for your
final project perfectly fine and a
reasonable idea for final project other
questions no
okay all right so that's assignments
back to uh lecture material we're
pushing on and hopefully going to almost
finish up uh our introductory section
for this course uh we started last time
in on a short history of AI I hope we'll
get through all of that today and we'll
move on to lecture three about embodied
cognition again history of AI
fascinating topic we could use a
whole uh course to talk about this last
time we started in the
1600s with Renee deart who unfortunately
for all of us uh operating in the
western world
cleaved body from brain and that idea
has permeated all the way down to the
present day where we as a society are
now trying to create intelligent
machines some of us are doing it with AI
and some of us are doing it with
robotics body no
body okay we then jumped 300 years
forward into the early uh early 20th
century we talked about Allan Turing and
specifically the Turing tape um the
Turing tape summarized more or less we
have this thing this machine turing
machine that can move back and forth
across an infinite tape and it can read
stuff off the tape so this machine can
take
input this machine can then take what it
just read and combine it with its own
internal state it can do a little bit of
internal
processing and then the tape can do do
something the tape uh the machine can
move the tape forward and back or the
machine can move itself forward or
backward along the tape so this idea of
input first input first then processing
then output is another uh inheritance we
have from the past in the way we think
about computers input processing and
output it also has affected the way we
think think about ourselves you are all
sitting here looking at this slide
listening to my voice perhaps paying
attention perhaps combining it with
stuff I said a few minutes ago or last
week and then I see some of you actually
writing stuff down input processing
output it's obvious that that's the way
machines should work it's obvious it's
the way we work so it's obvious that's
the way we should make
robots as you will see as we continue on
this course it is absolutely not that
obvious seems that obvious that's the
way a lot of our intellectual ancestors
have thought about this problem before I
invite you I challenge you to try and
think about the nature of intelligence
differently in this course and I will
help you do that as we go okay let's
keep moving forward let's jump another
20 years forward in to uh 19 in the
1950s so 67 years ago just down the road
from here in New Hampshire uh a bunch of
researchers uh wrote a proposal to the
government and they asked for a few
thousand from the government to con to
uh convene a two-month 10-man study this
is the
1950s um and they wanted these
researchers wanted to study this
interesting idea of maybe now that these
things called computers existed thanks
to Turing and others uh during the 30s
and 40s now that there were these new
things called computers maybe we could
make them intelligent so they asked for
funding to get together over the summer
and study this idea this proposal was
funded they did get together what was it
they were proposing to do they wanted to
meet uh at Dartmouth and proceed on the
basis of the following conjecture so
they had an idea and they wanted to
spend two months testing it the idea was
that every aspect of learning or any
other feature of intelligence that
humans have can in principle be
described precisely we can write down
exactly what human thinking is and these
were mostly mathematicians if we could
write something down very very
formally then the rest is easy the rest
is engineering then we could simply
create something to simulate it inside a
computer okay so they said we're going
to try and do we'd like to try and do
this and we'll make an effort to make uh
machines that again do all these things
that make up intelligence use language
form abstractions and Concepts basically
do math solve kinds of problems that are
now only reserved for humans and also by
the way will uh make these computers
also get better at doing these things on
their own we'll show them how to improve
themselves or learn we're pretty sure
that we can make a good dent in this
problem if one or more of these problems
are tackled by a carefully selected
group of scientists guess who this
carefully selected group of scientists
were the 10 guys the 10 guys that are
writing this proposal exactly right
should take us about two months and
we'll make intelligent and learning
computers at about the same level as
humans this conference actually did take
place how did they do not so good not so
good okay these were some pretty bright
fellows as we'll see uh in a moment not
so easy at the beginning in the
1950s again thanks to some of the things
that had happened in the 30s and 40s
suddenly there were these new things
called Adam bombs there were these new
things called computers holy cow you
could make some pretty powerful computer
uh some pretty powerful technology in a
very short period of time so making
smart machines in the ' 50s also should
be no problem 67 years later we are
still working on this problem and we can
argue in this course whether or not
we've made any significant advances what
humans be counted as maches ah great
question are humans Turing machines I
will leave that for you to think about
yeah this is not a psychology course
we're going to do a little bit of
Neuroscience I hope what you see in this
course will cause you to think
differently about your own intelligent
behavior and you can come to your own
conclusions about whether or not you or
we are intell are touring
machines okay why am I telling you this
particular historical detail it's a
reminder that even from the beginning
and even some very very very intelligent
people under estimated how difficult it
is to make machines intelligent and I
would personally argue that
underestimation is still happening okay
so who were these 10 people here they
are anybody recognize any names on this
list it's okay if you
don't um John McCarthy John
McCarthy how do you know John McCarthy
why does that name ring a bell if you
remember I don't remember exactly I've
just heard him in other areas of science
okay John McCarthy was the one that
actually came up with the term
artificial intelligence we can argue
about who is actually the founding uh
the founding person of AI McCarthy is
definitely one of the candidates Turing
probably
another
is is that a different McCarthy from the
like cold war yes not that McCarthy yes
I don't know if they're related good
good question other names you recognize
on this list
anyone how about Claude Shannon any
mathematicians here I see somebody
nodding their heads who is Claude
Shannon information Theory founder of
information Theory we live in the
information age what exactly is
information it turns out that you can
actually formally Define what
information is and uh Claude Shannon did
it in his master's thesis not not bad
not bad okay some other names on this
list as I mentioned John McCarthy was
actually the organizer the one who wrote
this proposal and invented this term
artificial intelligence uh Marvin Minsky
went on to co- found the MIT AI lab
which is still in existence next time
you're in Cambridge MTH
stopped by the stata center uh that's
where the MIT AI lab is more or less the
mecca for all things uh AI unfortunately
Professor Minsky was involved with
Epstein um it's an unfortunate uh case
worth mentioning Claude Shannon father
of information Theory uh Herbert Simon
um was actually an economist but did a
lot of important work uh in AI back in
the early in the 1960s received a Nobel
priz for it uh Herbert Simon's very last
doctoral student Professor Chris skolka
you might have taken a class with him
here at UVM so there's a connection uh
there okay just some interesting names
if you're interested in the history of
AI absolutely go and Google these these
names okay um few people involved at the
beginning there are obviously many many
more people involved in AI today not
everyone has the same goals so what is
it that we as a community of those who
study Ai and Robotics what is it that
we're trying to do you'll find all sorts
of different goals I would argue that
one way to organize all these goals is
into sort of scientific goals number one
and two and then number three is an
engineering goal so one of the things uh
folks try to do by creating Ai and
Robotics is to try and actually
understand biological systems we just
talked about neurons and synapses if we
think we understand neurons or synapses
or we have questions about how they
might work why don't we try and code
them up and simulate them inside an
intelligent machine and see how well
that intelligent machine does so one way
of thinking about robotics is a robot is
just another scientific tool like a
microscope or a telescope it allows us
to ask and try and test new questions
about the nature of biological uh
intelligence so you might for example
come up with the following scientific
hypothesis or question how do simple
animals translate the detection of light
into phototaxis phototaxis is the name
for the behavior of moving towards a
light source so you might have an idea
of what kind of neurons and synapses do
that you code up those neurons and
synapses into a simple uh into a simple
Lego
robot and if the Lego robot is able to
successfully move towards the light
maybe that's evidence in favor of your
hypothesis maybe that is how animals
actually perform phototaxis you can use
a robot to
instantiate a scientific hypothesis I
think this is how animals do Behavior X
so put that mechanism into a robot robot
and if that robot does behave your X
that's that suggests maybe at least
that's one way to do it not necessarily
how animals do it or organisms do it but
it's some support for your hypothesis
okay if you can do that then we then we
start to have animals and machines that
are sort of doing similar behaviors
maybe we can abstract away all the
biological details of how Mother Nature
does it neurons and synapses are
fantastically complicated machines but
maybe we can abstract away some of those
details same thing with robots we can
abstract away transistors and capacitors
and silicon chips and all the rest and
get to the nitty-gritty what is the
basic mechanism that allows a machine to
act intelligently that mechanism may be
embodied in a biological way in this way
or it might be embodied in a mechanical
away in this way right we're trying to
get away get get rid of all the details
and understand intelligence in
principle okay if we can do that if we
can abstract away all these biological
details again maybe we can then take
that basic idea and instantiate it or
create it in machines that's more or
less what you're doing in these first 10
assignments yeah okay there are others
working in Ai and Robotics who have
other goals that don't sort of fit into
this framework I again invite you over
the uh span of this course to come up
with your own goals why are you here why
are you interested in intelligent
machines what do you hope to
achieve okay moving forward in time
again continuing our AI history here
moving into the
1960s uh Joseph weisen bomb between 64
and 66 introduced the Eliza program this
was a uh an electronic psycho analyst
which caused shock waves shock waves
through society when it was published
because suddenly you had a computer that
could help people with their mental
problems um I am feeling terrible Eliza
would respond almost instantaneously
with why do you feel terrible this was
shocking to people at the time it was
most everyone concluded in 1966 that
that was it for Psychotherapy all the
human counselors were going to be fired
and replaced with machines this is it
these researchers had been working on
this problem for 10 years at this point
so it had taken longer than expected but
now now it's been solved go play around
if you don't believe me go play around
with Eliza this is it we now have
computers that are as smart as a
psychotherapist that's about as smart as
you need to be right that was it does
this social phenomenon sound
familiar
okay public perception of AI is a tricky
tricky thing how did Eliza work Eliza
had about 200 300 lines of code which
was basically just this huge hairy messy
if then else if then else nested set of
if then else statements that was looking
for particular combinations of verbs and
nouns and subjects and objects and if it
found that pattern it would just
rearrange the nouns and verbs and Tack
on a question mark at the end you can
actually go play around with Eliza on
the web somewhere it's pretty good it's
amazing what you can do with 200 or 300
lines of
code okay all right we're going to just
jump backwards a little bit uh to the
1950s we talked about touring uh Alan
turing's turing machine an abstract
depiction of a minimal computer Turing
is more famous of course for the Turing
test as shown
here
sit
down I'm kind of nervous when I take
test just please don't
move I already have
sh that's the hotel what where I live
nice place I guess that part of the test
no just warming up that's all it's not
fancy you're in a desert walking along
in the sand all the test now yes you're
in a desert walking along the sand when
all of a sudden you what a desert
doesn't make any difference what desert
is completely hypothetical but I my be
maybe you're fed up maybe you want to be
by yourself who knows you look down you
see a tauris it's crawling toward ttis
what's
that okay lights's coming back
on okay here's someone uh conducting the
touring test this individual uh who is
receiving the test is going to fail the
test in a few minutes but that's not the
worst thing that happens in this
particular scene it's a little bit more
unfort fortunate for the person who's
actually administering the
test where is this clip
from okay good mandatory homework if you
have not seen this movie this weekend
that's mandatory homework okay okay
touring test all joking aside there was
a lot of arguments in starting in the'
40s into the 50s about what exactly is
intelligence we want to make intelligent
machines we need to somehow formally
Define what it is okay let's formally
Define
intelligence tricky it's very tricky
again arguably we're still working on
this and we may or may not have made any
progress on just defining what
intelligence is Turing believed that we
would never be able to formally Define
intelligence so better instead to
operationalize it operations actions we
know will'll know it when we see it he
formulated the idea of the Turing test
you hide a computer behind a screen you
hide a human behind a screen and you
allow a human to talk to whoever or
whatever is behind the screen and if the
human asking the questions cannot tell
whether or not they're talking to a
machine or a human being then that
machine has passed the Turing test and
that's it that's the definition of
intelligence for most people that's not
very
satisfying seem like a satisfying
definition to
you doesn't feel very
good I feel like it brings up other
question about like why is it that we
can
decide
goes the exact same question before
which was is intelligence what is
intelligence why is it that is it about
our brains that even DET that's it
exactly right so if if you pass the
Turing test all of you so far have been
acting relatively intelligent you've
been asking great questions most of you
have passed the quiz I assume most most
of you are going to pass the assignment
I'm giving you the touring
test throughout the spring you all seem
to be
passing how do I know what what I can't
Define what it is that actually makes
you intelligence It's Tricky it seems
the Turing test seems slippery it evades
actually formally defining what
intelligence is yeah I was I feel like
gbt definitely like you know if I was
having a conversation with ch gbt I
would probably somewhat believe it was a
person and I definitely don't think it's
intelligent
okay okay I'm missing that slide yes so
for a lot of people it seems that chat
GPT has passed the Turing test therefore
at least according to Turing and the
Turing test chat GPT is intelligence is
intelligent period we're done again for
a lot of people not very satisfying
somehow isn't there also like this thing
where humans try to put Humanity onto
like different animals or different
objects so it makes it so that like
certain certain like algorithms like
this that respond in a similar way to
like how you would hear other people
respond they have like some sort of
similar feature to humans which makes it
seem like they're intelligent because
people just think that humans are
intelligent a great point right so the
person administering the test is also
somehow involved in the test itself you
mentioned this uh human bias to project
human qualities or that we tend to see
human qualities in nonhuman things like
animals like in chat GPT lyan replicants
what is this human bias called there's a
name for
it anthropomorphizing anthropomorphizing
anthr human promiz imposing the the
shape or the form or the behavior of
humans on things that don't have it so
we're biased as well this is what makes
defining
intelligence difficult we're sort of
part of the equation yeah so it's all
kind of very confusing I don't think
we're going to come up with any answers
today all I'm trying to emphasize is
that this is a confusing thing to talk
about also I think it's interesting like
the chat GP stuff because like different
people have different opinions on it
learning language is like you learn all
these like formal rules and then you
actually go to like the country where
they begin it's completely different
absolutely absolutely right Chachi PT is
like someone or something that's trying
on English right seems pretty good at it
actually but there's some idiosyncrasies
that seem not a little bit off okay one
last point and then we'll move on
Emily I know recently a lot
of
question
Des asking compter okay I just been
hearing that a lot recently I and the
fact that a lot of people have coded
into those maches that they're not
allowed to in in response to
our okay don't
know yeah it's a great point so there
there's a a new idea that if you ask the
machine straight up are you a machine it
has to give you an honest answer it has
to confess that it's machines we're now
talking about has to the machine has to
do it now we're moving from philosophy
into uh uh into policy maybe we should
regulate these machines so that they
have to admit whether or not they are a
replicant if we don't do that maybe this
is the kind of problems we're going to
run into in the years to come right that
is a very important question there are
obviously a ton of important policy
questions now uh open AI sort of caught
Everybody by surprise by deploying a
machine that seems to pass the Turing
test spectacularly well what do we as a
society want to do with that reality
we'll come back to those sets of
questions uh again and again in this
course okay let's push on a lot of
people had a problem with turing's test
one person in particular that had a
problem with this was the philosopher
John surl I know you can't read the text
in the back of the room no problem I'm
going to uh describe this to you so John
surl came up with his own thought
experiment this is a hypothetical
situation surl believed that this
hypothetical situation
disproves the Turing test it proves that
the Turing test does not measure
intelligence here we go all right here's
the hypothetical
situation we have a room we have a door
and there's a slot in the door the
people outside the room cannot see into
the room inside the room is an English
speaker who does not who cannot speak or
cannot read Mandarin cannot understand
or write Chinese the people outside the
room are native are fluent uh in Chinese
they write down in Chinese a question
and they pass that question written down
on a piece of paper through the slot in
the door the human speaker inside the
room gets that piece of paper looks at
it and it's just a whole bunch of
squiggles it means absolutely nothing
it's a whole bunch of
indecipherable uh
squiggles they turn to this huge book
inside the room this book is written in
English so the English speaker can
obviously read this book and the book
says if you see this set of squiggles
followed by this set of squiggles and
this set of squiggles take another piece
of paper and write this sequence of
squiggles on it if instead you see this
set of squiggles write this set of
squiggles and pass it back through the
door this book is a huge huge huge set
of if then else statements so far so
good surl argued that you could in
theory make such a book it would be very
very very very big but you could do it
so that any question that the Chinese
speakers wrote on a piece of paper and
passed through after a few minutes if
they received a piece of paper back from
uh the room that it would be a concise
brilliant uh piercing response to their
question the people therefore outside
the room would be led to the conclusion
that either the room or the person
inside it understands Chinese is
intelligent they've passed the Turing
test but how can this person pass the
test this person is a human so
presumably intelligent but this person
is not understanding
Chinese so we have a system that is not
clearly non-intelligent doesn't
understand Chinese at all but it's
passing the Turing test it's projecting
the fact that it does understand Chinese
therefore according to surl you can have
non-intelligent things things that don't
understand English passing the Turing
test therefore the Turing test is
fed great great question so now we've
moved on from the description of the
Chinese room thought experiment to
possible rebuttal to the Chinese room
that's fine we're going to talk about
that in a moment just remember for our
purposes right now we're viewing the
Chinese room as sur's rebuttal to the
Turing test surl said the Turing test is
not a good way to measure intelligence
for this reason there are challenges to
the Chinese room thought experiment
itself and you've brought up one of them
which is that wait a second the person
in the room is intelligent
you'll notice that in this hypothetical
thought experiment the only thing the
human is doing is looking at symbols
referring to a book doing some pattern
matching finding those symbols and then
doing what the instructions in the book
say does that sound
familiar it's a human in the Chinese
room but it doesn't need to be we could
replace the human in the room with a
computer or the touring a touring
machine and it would we'd still get
exactly the same result the people
outside the Chinese room would conclude
that the touring machine inside the
room is intelligent it understands
Chinese but it clearly
doesn't what's the problem
here um it's not looking at like the
Nuance of returning responses to the
other person it's not looking at the
nuances what do you mean by Nuance here
like if the person is sending a message
through with a particular tone okay like
a tone that's like very sarcastic or
talking about an event that's recent
instead of from the past okay
then you would need to have like like
you would either need to have a book
that has
like 10 or 15 different responses for
any like singular question great point
and that would be like an immensely
large book absolutely we're talking
about a very large book now so maybe the
book right here doesn't quote unquote
understand sarcasm so let's write a
bigger book I'm not I don't know Chinese
I don't know how you write sarcasm into
a Chinese question presumably there is a
way will encode that in the book and now
the Chinese room understands sarcasm did
you have a question or comment I'm just
answering his question about okay so
basically for English Le I talk to a lot
of English native speaking and usually
they cannot understand sasm in our
language got it so do I have the right
to say that you're not intelligent
that's great great point right and also
I have something to say about this sure
um so is intelligence in this case the
ability to learn like recognizing
patterns matching Chinese character with
English because that's literally how I
learned English in the beginning and how
I do SAT exams I just like find some
like pattern in a question and then try
to Ste it through the paragraph that's
how I do the English test I mean it's
just beginning later I improve my
English and that's not how I do that
anymore or is it the case here the abil
the ability to speak the language okay
like we have different typ languages
true that a lot of things involve in
intelligence for example like reading
body languages and interacting with the
environment so language is not the only
thing that we can use to identify
intelligence great Point okay a lot of
good points in there let me highlight a
few of them you mentioned learning so
the touring test and sir's Chinese room
has says nothing about learning it just
assumes that learning has already
happened the book it already exists and
it's just execution at this point we
could argue that the room is missing
learning it doesn't take into account
learning you mentioned body language
somebody mentioned sarcasm there's lots
of other parts to understanding a
language that we as humans feel are
important I would assign you as optional
homework go back and think about the
Turing test in the Chinese room and see
if you can add those things to the
thought experiments I'm showing you the
original formulation of both of these
thought experiments that didn't contain
these subtleties I think you were next I
think in this case tones and sarcasm
doesn't like it's okay to make mistakes
because that happen all the time in real
life over text or letters or whatever
sure but I think it's just the format of
the medium that's causing a mistake and
might be more human to to make mistakes
yeah maybe we put uh we put some random
numbers in the book from time to time do
this from time to time do that make
mistakes intentionally maybe we add in
emojis if you see emojis that then do
something different all of these
subtleties that you're all pointing out
if surl were here he would probably
argue fine add them to the book yes this
book is going to become huge but we
don't care book can be as big as you
want for surl there was a book that was
big enough that would capture all of
these things that you're talking about
eventually I feel like that's like the
of exist just like oh yeah it'll just be
really big and it could exist but like
how big how big is Big infinitely large
like how much how much what if it took
infinite time for like or some
ridiculous amount of time for some like
I feel like that's the argument almost
breaks down because it could sort of Go
off into this like infin
okay y almost get true so there are
there are hundreds and hundreds of
rebuttal of the Chinese room and I love
that some of you are rediscovering them
so we're going to talk about just a few
of them and then we're going to move on
in the interest of time you've
identified another one which is okay
maybe maybe you could make a book that
would trick the people into thinking
that the person inside the room passes
the Chinese room but how big should that
book be I'm just going to add to that
you are all engaged in an intelligent
conversation with me at the moment and
from my perspective you're all passing
the
test how are you doing it what's going
on in here is it this or is it something
else if it is this if your skull inside
your skull is basically this this big
book with this little thing that looks
stuff up in it how big how big is it
thanks to Neuroscience we actually have
an answer to that for most uh adult
humans you have about 10 to the 11
neurons inside your head and you have
about 10 to the 14 synapses more or less
in your head no matter how you count
those are pretty pretty pretty big
numbers
still doesn't answer whether or not you
are a Chinese room again somebody asked
this at the beginning of today's lecture
it's up to you to decide I am not trying
to convince you one way or the other I'm
just trying to show you some of the
ground that's already been trodden by
those before you was there a point in
the
back great okay so let's end the Chinese
room discussion with that how are we
defining understanding Sur said this
thing does not understand Chinese full
stop that's an assertion he's not
proving that he just uses that as an
axiom or assumption for his thought
experiment this thing does not
understand according to surl and it
passes the Turing test therefore the
Turing test is flawed because it's too
easy there are things that do not
understand that can pass the Turing
test it's up to you you to decide
whether surl was
right this person understands English
they do not understand Chinese maybe the
room as a whole is understanding
Chinese seems a crazy statement to
make how can an inanimate object sorry
the room plus this person plus the book
plus all the actions that the person is
doing inside the room that whole system
understands does an individual neuron in
your head understand does an individual
synapse inside your head
understand most people would answer that
question with no or maybe it they do a
little bit do you as a whole do you as a
whole understand what I'm saying right
now I can see some of you nodding yes so
what's the
difference this thing doesn't understand
this thing doesn't understand the slot
in the door doesn't understand the door
doesn't understand the masonry that
makes up the room doesn't understand but
the system as a whole maybe understands
for surl the answer was no system
doesn't understand
either which is tricky for surl because
if the room as a whole doesn't
understand then how can this thing
understand sirl said I don't know but it
does we do we do understand this thing
doesn't we are special okay one last
point and then we'll move on um is there
a difference from like something being
intelligent versus like projection of
whoever made it intelligent is there a
difference between something being
intelligent and the thing itself not
being intelligent but it's just a
projection of the person's intelligence
who made
it depends on your definition of
intelligence which is historically
difficult no one has a good definition
of intelligence so what you asked is a
great question but your question is
predicated on the term intelligence
which is
undefined makes all of these discussions
very
difficult okay let's keep going uh let's
move forward the Chinese room was 1980
let's move to the mid
1980s um we're going to talk now about
Valentino brenberg brenberg was a a a
neurophysiologist meaning he studied the
physiology of brains not human brains
but usually uh fruit flies most of you
probably live in student housing or you
have recent memory of student housing uh
if you leave rotten fruit or any rotten
food out for a while after a while there
are these teeny teeny tiny flies all
over the rotten food those are fruit
flies super super small inside a fruit
fly is the fruit F's brain brenberg
studied those brains if there were uh a
piece if there was a rotten apple back
in the far corner of this room and I
opened up a jar with fruit flies in it
eventually they would fly over there and
in a few minutes they'd all be covering
the Apple how do the fruit flies find
the
fruit in the 60s and 70s brenberg
colleagues were writing papers arguing
that the fruit fly was performing
different differentiable calculus and
solving the equations of motion of uh
fluid dynamics to understand how to fly
through air and detect the uh odor of
the apple and swim through the air
Upstream to find the Apple meanwhile
brenberg is looking inside these teeny
teeny tiny brains saying wait a second
how can this teeny teeny tiny thing be
doing differentiable calculus this does
this seems
ridiculous brenberg said we're
overshooting we're coming up with
theories that are way more complicated
to explain fruit fly Behavior than we
need to so brenberg started to think
about what is the simplest explanation
for what's going on inside the brains of
fruit flies that would explain uh
chemotaxis I mentioned uh phototaxis a
few minutes ago moving to towards a
light source chemotaxis moving towards a
chemical Source or a piece of rotten
apple that is defusing uh an
odor he came up with some pretty simple
theories and he boiled these all down
into a book called Vehicles this is not
a scientific textbook it's written more
or less for the general public and it's
actually a series of 12 fairy tales the
first of those 12 fairy tales starts as
follows Once Upon a Time imagine that
there was a very simple vehicle that had
a body which is the little block that
you see here it had a single it has a
this vehicle has a single wheel on the
back and it's got a single temperature
sensor on the front sensor motor
controlling the wheel and one synapse
that connects the temperature sensor to
the motorized wheel so far so good we
dropped this teeny tiny single wheel
vehicle into a pool of
water and what will you see happen uh
you would see that this vehicle will
always move in a straight line because
it's only got one wheel it can't turn
it's going to slow down in cold water
and speed up in warm water why one
temperature sensor connected by one
synapse to one motorized wheel why does
it goes slow in the cold and speed up in
the
warm
because it's sensing in the front that
when it's warm it's like allowed to go
faster it's how it's programmed to do
okay I'm gonna pause you there it's
allowed to I love that anthropomorphic
language
right easier it's this is just a
physical system we got a temperature
sensor on the front so the temperature
sensor will just register a larger
floating point value when the water's
warmer that larger number flows along
the synapse the synapse is nothing more
than a tunnel it just takes that number
and sends it to the motor the motor gets
that big floating point value and Spins
the wheel quickly so that the machine
goes fast in the warm if it moves
through a warm pocket of water and moves
into a cold pocket of water suddenly the
numbers being reported by the
temperature sensors start to
drop which means lower smaller numbers
are going to the wheel which causes the
wheel to move slower so it slows down in
the cold nothing magical you can make
you can make this at a Lego you can make
a mechanical version of this very very
simple clearly this thing is not
thinking it's just a deterministic
mechanical
machine however Bren writes in his book
what would you think if you saw such a
thing swimming around in a pond and
assume that you didn't know what was
inside you didn't even know it's a
vehicle it's just a thing moving around
going fast in warm water and slowing
down in cold water you'd probably say
it's Restless it doesn't like warm water
it's also quite stupid since it doesn't
turn back to go to the nice cold spot
that it seemed to like before because it
slowed down in the
cold anyway you'd say it's probably
alive because you've never seen a
particle of dead matter move around in
quite that
way wow that's a lot of
anthropomorphization I think it's funny
that he says it's probably quite stupid
there but then kind of says but it is
intelligent you know where it's like
something can be what what we call like
intelligent but no nowhere near like a
level of arm intelligence where is you
know we think about like the large
language models as doing things that we
can't answer but we don't think of them
as super intelligent great great point
right okay so good comparison to chat PT
let's keep going in chapter two uh
brenberg says Once Upon a Time imagine
that there were actually two different
machines vehicle uh
2B which has the following properties
instead of temperature sensors let's
replace the temperature sensor with uh
photo sensors photo for light again so
on the front of vehicle
2B it's got two photo sensors one front
left and one front right it's now got
two wheels and two synapses one synapse
connects the front left sensor to the
back right
wheel the second synapse connects the
front right sensor to the back left
wheel these two synaps Es are crossed as
you can see so these are contra lateral
connections we starts to throw in some
neurophysiological terms Contra meaning
across across the center line of the
body of the robot in your brain you have
a lot of contralateral connections the
wires coming from your left eye connect
to the back right of your brain and vice
versa
okay if you were to chase this robot if
you took a flashlight and put and shine
that flashlight towards the front left
of the
robot what is it going to
do absolutely it's going to turn left
towards the light Sent Source because at
this moment in time there's more light
falling on the left sensor than on the
right sensor so there's a bigger number
leaving the left sensor than the right
sensor that bigger number travels to the
right wheel causing the right wheel to
spin faster than the left wheel
everybody see that okay which obviously
causes the robot to turn a little bit
towards the light source let's pause our
mental physics engine for a moment the
robot has now turned a little bit
towards the light what happens at the
next instant and time let's assume I'm I
haven't moved the flashlight I'm holding
the flashlight
constant the the other sensor starts to
pick up more light but the robot is also
turned towards the light so both sensors
are receiving more light but the right
sensor is receiving more light so what
does the robot
do it goes straight okay so now the
robot is heading straight towards the
light source let's pause our mental
physics engine again for a moment what
happens at the next instant in
time both equal so it just go
straight if it's facing if it's facing
the light both sensors are receiving the
same amount of light so they're both
sending numbers of the same magnitude
along their two synapses which cause
both Wheels to
spin so it'll continue to go straight
and what else starts to happen right
it's accelerating because the light uh
because there's more light more light
wheels turn faster gets closer we have a
positive feedback loop it speeds up and
if this flashlight is a naked light bulb
it'll smash into the light bulb and
destroy it this is the aggressor
brenberg writes in his book the vehicle
2B hates light with a passion and will
destroy any light source that it can get
its hands on on does vehicle 2B
hate is vehicle one
stupid is it alive is it
Restless let's keep going we'll do one
more brenberg vehicle this is vehicle uh
2A it's exactly the same as the
aggressor two light sources two wheels
but now we have ipsa lateral connections
same side left sensor attached to left
wheel right sensor attached to right me
wheel in this case I'm going to place
the flashlight to the front right of the
robot what does the robot do in this
case it's going to turn away from the
light it's going to move why
because
one
absolutely right so at this moment in
time there's more light falling on this
sensor which means this wheel is going
to turn faster than this wheel and it's
going to turn away from the light what
happens at the next instant in time
after it's turned away from the light a
little
bit assuming these are omnidirectional
sensors so the light sensor can still
see the flashlight that now is maybe a
little bit behind it it's turned left
and it's turned away from the light
source a little bit it's turned away
from the flashlight what happens at the
next instant in
time it'll keep slow it'll it'll turn
away but it'll start to slow down
because the S the light sensors are now
further away from the flashlight meaning
smaller number
are are emanating from the light sensors
along the synapses the wheels slow down
so I've got my flashlight I've shined it
on vehicle 2A vehicle 2A has turned away
from the light and slowed down now I
start chasing vehicle 2A with the light
source what's going to
happen it's going to speed away from me
and then slow down
until I come after it again this is the
coward it's afraid of light like nothing
else terrified of light does vehicle 2A
fear does vehicle uh vehicle 2B
hate does vehicle one like cold water is
it stupid is it Restless of course not
this is ridiculous why would a serious
neurophysiologist write such a book it's
obvious that the vehicles don't have any
of these
properties now we do we love we hate we
get Restless some of you are bored
looking at your watch we've got all of
these emotional States vehicles
obviously don't it's
obvious
comp responding to stimulus and doing
things are
like controls more
comps
arey it appears like we love hate and so
on the vehicle certainly appear like
they love and hate um there's an
experiment in my the course I study
psychology 101 about uh de construct
human emotion so a lot of psychologist
say that our kind of like label By Us by
the stimulus and not really what
happened inside us so basically they say
that when we Fe and when we happy some
of us have the same physical condition
but we label it differently because of
the stimulus so that's a experiment uh
there's still a lot of debates about it
whether it's accurate or not but a lot
of psychologists say that our emotion
also like language constructed and it's
not something that nature kind like Lael
great great point right so there's a lot
of emerging studies uh in uh psychology
also in Neuroscience cognitive science
in robotics that seem to militate
against our confidence I'm confident
that I love and hate I'm confident that
these things don't it's so
obvious science seems to be suggesting
not I see a lot of hands up which is
great because you're on the chopping
block here right if you think you're
better or different from a brenberg
vehicle prove it we don't have time in
this course to do that why did brenberg
write this book part of it was to ruffle
your
feathers for centuries if not Millennia
we have been sure we're the center of
the universe we love we hate the sun
revolves around us not the other way
around are we so sure about all these
things
I am not here to argue that you are
nothing better than a brenberg vehicle
as always it's up to you to decide for
yourself but there is a lot of evidence
out there that says it's increasingly
difficult to say how you are different
from some of these
things you certainly do have a lot more
wires inside you than a brenberg vehicle
is that it is that your only you the
generic you is that our only defense we
just have more wires if that's our
defense that's a pretty flimsy defense
okay I want to push on let's continue
into the 1980s while brenberg was
writing his book elsewhere people were
starting to replace the if then Els
programs like Eliza with new programs
that simulated small little bits of the
brain and wired them up in particular
ways and started to see that those kinds
of computer programs that simulated the
brain had some interesting
properties so here's the here's the
inspiration uh we know that brains take
as input sensation and brains send out
commands to our muscles those are neural
networks so let's similarly uh let's
simulate neurons represented by the
circles here and synapses by the arrows
we can do this in an artificial neural
network like chat GPT or other things
running inside a computer where we
Supply the input to the computer program
in the computer and we read out the
answer from the computer or we can drop
one of these computer programs that
simulates neurons and synapses into a
robot where the values arriving at the
sensors are sent into these neurons the
sensor neurons those values flow down to
the motor neurons and those motor
neurons send numbers to the motors that
cause the wheels to turn yeah okay so
that's an artificial neural network
dropped into a robot or an artificial
neural network in an AI
program okay starting in the 1980s um
these artificial neural networks were
starting to show the glimmers of
interesting intelligent Behavior until
someone came along and said these neural
networks can't do anything everything
there's a few things they can't do and
they uh this brought on an AI winter in
the 1990s there was huge funding going
to these neural networks in the 80s
someone sort of showed there's something
neural networks can't do suddenly all
the funding was removed and if any
scientist breathed the word artificial
neural network in the 1990s your funding
was yanked
you can go read about the various AI
Winters and AI Summers they look like
boom and
busts we are currently obviously in an
AI High summer you are not only allowed
in a research proposal to talk about AI
if you don't you're probably not going
to get
funding okay a lot of people like to
think about whether uh winter is on its
way it's a Game of Thrones meme right is
winter on its way back in the 19 early
1990s uh a then famous roboticist
pointed out why these Summers and
Winters were happening many researchers
got caught up in a web of EX increasing
exaggeration so they made promises to
DARPA which is the uh research wing of
the US military they made promises uh to
to DARPA that they would do X Y and Z
but those promises had been much too
optimistic and didn't actually work out
don't tell DARPA that
but DARPA remembers what you promised
the last time so when you go to ask for
money from DARPA again you can't promise
less you have to promise more if I wrote
a proposal right now and submit it to
DARPA DARPA still exists and I said I'm
gonna make a computer program that's
weaker than chat GPT what's the chance
that DARPA is going to give me money
zero right there's this treadmill that
builds up where you have to keep
promising more and more and more until
you as an individual scientist or the
community as a whole can no longer
deliver and DARPA gets fed up with all
this AI hype and Yanks all the funding
hopefully that doesn't happen who knows
so you are all taking a class in Ai and
Robotics in the middle of an AI High
summer we'll see what happens in the
months and years to
come okay this is not a course about
deep learning but uh we couldn't pass
through a history of AI without talking
about why we are currently in a high
summer I mentioned somebody proved in
the 1980s that there was a problem with
neural networks it took a while to solve
that problem that problem was solved in
the late 90s very early 2000s which
allowed researchers to make deep neural
networks input neurons uh here output
neurons here and lots of different
layers in between and they could then
train or teach these deep networks in a
particular away so that if you presented
a picture of a cat the face node the
node that rep recognizes human faces
would not light up but the node that
represents a cat would light up and this
neural network would tell you I see a
cat I don't see a human face if you
instead presented this neural network
with a picture of a human face this
neuron would light up this one would not
and this neuron would light up saying I
see a human face I do not see a cat it
took a lot to get this to work it
started to work spectacularly well
surprisingly well obscenely well in the
late 90s early 2000s and that
realization has gradually spread
throughout the AI community and now to
the general public and oh my gosh look
at all the things you can do with a deep
neural
network this is a non-embodied machine
it has no sensors and Motors this thing
canot not go out and get a picture of a
human face it sits inside a computer
waiting for people to supply images to
it okay as we all know these things work
fantastically well most of the time
here's one successfully recognizing that
it sees a granny smith apple and it
knows it's not looking at an iPod
exactly the same deep
Network now is
99.7% sure that it's looking at an
iPod okay we go back and retrain this
neural network on images like this and
tell it this is an apple not an iPod and
so now when you show it this pair of
images again it says Granny Smith and
continues to say Granny Smith when you
show this picture
we fixed this neural network right it's
fixed how will we know when it's
fixed we never as far as we know there
is no good way to know okay I am going
to argue you to death in this course
that we never can because this is a
non-embodied machine it can't reach out
into the world and push against the
world world and observe how the world
pushes back okay I want to finish this
lecture today so I'm going to skip over
this we're going to end here we're going
to argue that robotics is the answer
eventually embodied machines will be
able to not be fooled by things like
this here is a uh an overview of the
state-ofthe-art or the structure of AI
and Robotics at the moment as I've
already mentioned you can see car iian
dualism in the structure of these fields
itself we've got those on this side
those researchers that believe that
intelligent machines don't need a body
on this side of the line are researchers
that believe intelligent machines need a
body and I'm one of those researchers
you don't need to agree with me I'm just
going to make a case over the spring
that this is it we're going to spend all
our time in this course talking about a
particular branch of evolutionary
robotics
you can go Google these other terms and
learn about these other branches of
Robotics next time we're going to
actually talk about what this term
embodiment means uh you have a quiz due
tonight undergraduates you're working on
assignment two grad students you're
working on assignments three and four I
will see you all on Thursday have a good
day